# CM1705-Assessment-Q1
Answer to Question 1 of Component 2 of the CM1705 Assessment

Version Control aids developers in managing and tracking any changes to files, this allows teams or individuals to experiment with multiple versions of documents/code while keeping the original, go back to earlier versions if needed or merge documents/code together and show clashes between them. Version Control also allows teams of developers to work synchronously while keeping disruption to a minimum as each member may work on different areas of code and see any clashes that have been made. 

A version control system such as Git/GitHub allows for repositories to be created which is the equivalent to a "main folder". From this, a "commit" can be made which saves the file as a version in the repository. A "pull" can then be made which takes the latest version of the files on GitHub to ensure that the files that are being worked on are up to date. Finally, a "push" can be done which updates the repository with the latest files. In comparison, a much simpler form of version control may include naming files as: "doc_version2.txt", "document_04_05_22.txt" or "document_final.txt". 
Using a method such as dating the files can be easier to track however this does not show what changes have been made, for example, this may have been some small formatting edits or a whole re-write of the file's contents. It also makes it harder to return to the earlier version as the developer will have to guess when the desired version was created. On the other hand, GitHub allows developers to see what changes were made between versions and also allows them to revert back to a certain version if needed. 
